# System Processes Integrity Assurance Protocol

An adversary can potentially impact the operational hours of SCADA systems by altering the state of devices, e.g., adversaries can maliciously switch a pump on with a close valve, permanently damaging the main water purifier pump. Cyber attacks such as false sequential attacks can introduce malicious runtime states that ignores the input from controllers and SCADA masters, causing physical damage to the field devices. In general, traditional SCADA ecosystems do not have adequate security mechanisms to provide robust process integrity assurance in embedded devices because of the critical performance trade-off of behavior-based operations. State-of-art push-pull based communications protocol of SCADA are hierarchical protocols. In general, security and reliability depend on the availability and minimal security mechanisms of a centralized device. Hence, a robust process integrity assurance that leverages security features of distributed platforms such as fault tolerance and verified transactions to prevent malicious runtime state updates must be devised.

In general, to prevent process integrity cyber attacks, monitor systems need a high degree of granularity to estimate field devices’ runtime state accurately. Unfortunately, traditional SCADA ecosystems integrate legacy communication protocols that are not suitable for tracking runtime state verification at the high degree of granularity needed. Thus, the System Processes Integrity Assurance protocol introduces a novel behavior-based MRA that leverages the behavior-based communication of the Modbus protocol to provide runtime state verification assurance. The proposed System Processes Integrity Assurance protocol consists of two phases (1) Process Enrollment Phase and (2) Runtime State Verification Phase. The RSV framework assumes a trusted environment and an administrator to perform the enrollment of physical processes. In the process enrollment phase, the System Processes Integrity Assurance protocol creates a fabric hyperledger-based smart contract that is later used to monitor the overall physical state of the SCADA architecture.

## Phase-1: Process Enrollment Phase

Through the enrollment phase, an administrator of the SCADA system can create a digital representation of a physical processes. In this phase, an administrator registers the approved set of physical process in the HLF network. The smart enrollment contract generates a process object that consists of all devices associated to the physical process. The System Processes Integrity Assurance protocol introduces a configuration file equivalent to the one presented in Figure. 5 on which the administrator outlines the components of the physical process. Without loss of generality, the JSON document represents the CE process. Available devices’ information is under ”device.” The high-level information helps the System Processes Integrity Assurance protocol to define the expected runtime state of devices. The dependencies of the CE process are listed under ”dependency,” dependency information is presented with a parent-child notion where prvEvent is the last valid event and nxtEvent is the current event. The list of available messages is under ”messages.”

## Phase-2: Runtime State Verification Phase

In this phase, the System Processes Integrity Assurance protocol aims to achieve device’s authentication and process integrity through behavior-based MRAs. The proposed MRA consists of two processes: (1) behavior-based Authentication Process and (2) State Integrity Process. Both processes are represented through smart contracts that are deployed in the HLF network. To minimize the disruption of the RSV protocol, we only consider critical events that aim to change the working runtime state of devices.

Detailed information about the System Processes Integrity Assurance protocol can be found in the paper [Achieving Sensor Identification and Data Flow Integrity in Critical Cyber-Physical Infrastructures](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9632340)
